Tome of Battle: The Book of the Nine Swords

version 1.142


Installation:

1.Unzip the Tome of Battle folder into your override folder.  You can find this inside MyDocuments\Neverwinter Nights 2.  
Currently, this class pack will conflict with others (hopefully not for too much longer) so be advised that using the Tome 
of Battle with other class packs could cause issues.

2.Unzip dialog.tlk and place it in My Documents\Neverwinter Nights 2.  This doesn’t go into override or any of the other 
folders.  All you need to do is place it inside the Neverwinter Nights 2 folder in MyDocuments.

A Primer to the Martial Adept Classes:

Martial Adepts are similar to spellcasters in that they ready and expend abilities.  They also have a berth of options as to 
what abilities they can prepare.  Right about there is where they become different.

To begin with, each Martial adept class has the option to regain their expended abilities during combat.  No matter what, 
these abilities are regained after the end of an encounter.  These are called maneuvers.  How you renew your maneuvers 
depends on what class you’re playing as.  Martial Adepts also can choose to have a constant ability functioning called 
stances.  Stances last until you opt to end the stance or until you switch to another stance.  All stances require a swift 
action to activate, or as it is referred to, ‘initiate’.

Swift actions and immediate actions are new to Neverwinter Nights 2.  A swift or immediate action represents an action that 
requires so little time that you would not use a standard action for it (such as making a short hop, or flourishing your 
weapon after an attack).  Swift and immediate actions, however are more time intensive than free actions and thus, you are 
limit to one per round (or six seconds).  The swift action queue is the small box to the right of the standard action queue.

Almost all boost and counter maneuvers are swift or immediate actions.  A boost is generally a maneuver that grants the 
initiator a small advantage, such as increasing weapon damage or weakening an opponent.  A counter is generally a reaction 
to a hostile action (although this isn’t always true), such as an enemy attacking you with a spell or merely walking within 
your reach.  Almost all boosts are swift actions and almost all counters are immediate actions.

Due to the nature of NWN2’s interface counters are initiated in expectation of the condition that triggers the counter.  
For instance, Action Before Thought grants a bonus to your reflex saves until the triggering action, which is an ability 
that causes the player to make a reflex save.  Once the player makes the reflex save with the bonus, the immediate action 
is spent, but not before then.  Before it is only expended and cannot be used again until recovered.  Only one counter can 
ever be prepared for a triggering condition at a time.  Initiating a new counter before the previous one has been expended 
by the triggering action will cause the old counter to be wasted.

Strikes are maneuvers which require a standard action to initiate.  Most strikes (but not all) involve an attack against an 
opponent in order to inflict the condition of the maneuver onto the opponent.  For example, most strikes are similar in 
nature to the Paladin’s Smite Evil.  They grant a specific bonus, but that bonus is only useful if the Paladin actually 
hits his target.

Like spells, maneuvers are influenced by a character’s relative capability in using them.  With spell casting classes this 
number is called the caster level and represents how many levels the player has in casting the type of spells for their 
class (Arcane, Divine, and so on).  Martial Adepts have something similar called an Initiator Level.  The main difference 
between initiator level and caster level is that a Martial adept can add half of his non-martial adept class levels to his 
initiator level.  A level seven crusader, level five fighter has an initiator level of 11 for example.  When dealing with 
multiclass Martial Adepts (Crusader 5/ Warblade 3) one or the other is added as half depending on what class the maneuver 
is being executed as (Executing a maneuver from the Warblade menu means that the initiator level of a Crusader 5/ Warblade 3 
would be 5).  Having an Initiator level of 1-2 allows you to learn first level maneuvers.  3-4 for second level, 5-6 for 
third, 7-8 for fourth, 9-10 for fifth, 11-12 for sixth, 13-14 for seventh, 15-16 for eighth, and 17+ for ninth level 
maneuvers.

Initiator level also determines the highest level of maneuver a Martial Adept can learn when he gains a level.  For this 
the highest initiator level possible is used to determine which abilities he can learn.  Additionally, certain maneuvers 
require you to know an amount of maneuvers from the same discipline in order to learn.  There is no hard and fast rule to 
how there are adjudicated.  Inferno Blast requires you to know five Desert Wind maneuvers in order to learn and Mountain 
Tombstone Strike requires no maneuvers.  Both are level nine maneuvers.  Stances count as maneuvers for the sake of 
determining what maneuvers are available 

Each martial adept has a training feat.  This training feat is also granted to those that take the Martial Study and 
Martial Stance feats.  This feat has three functions.  The first is to create your own personal copy of the Tome of Battle. 
 It holds all of your known maneuvers which you can examine at your leisure.  

Once you have this item you will be able to access the maneuver levelup screen.  Each time you level when you are not in 
combat you can select new maneuvers or retrain old maneuvers for new ones by activating the training feat.  If you autolevel 
you will not choose maneuvers for the level that you are at then, but for the last time that you selected new maneuvers.  
The list of available maneuvers to learn will be in the window on your left.  Maneuvers you choose to learn will be in the 
window second from the left.  Maneuvers that you know and can retrain are displayed third from the left.  The description 
window is on the far right.  You can never retrain a stance.

If you have a copy of the Tome of Battle and do not need to level, selecting the training feat will toggle the martial adept 
menu (it looks like a sword) on and off.  You cannot use the martial adept menu to ready maneuvers while you are in combat 
(unless you take the feat, Adaptive Style).  The Quickstrike menu is the middle icon on the martial adept menu and allows 
you to initiate your readied maneuvers.  Some maneuvers have conditional options that you can toggle with the icons of these 
maneuvers in the space above where it displays the name of the class.  Swordsages and Warblades have an icon on the martial 
adept menu, under the quickstrike menu’s icon which activates the recovery method for their classes.



Changelog

Version 1.142

-Improvements to scaling of most range checks.
-Corrected a bad 2da entry with the compatibility files for Kaedrin’s PrC pack which caused important background information 
not to function.

Version 1.141

-Bug fix to Wolverine Stance to prevent shields and other non-weapons in the offhand slot from adding to the regeneration bonus.
-Fixed Death Mark so that range and DC values are calculated correctly.
-Corrected an issue with Shadow Blade that caused its bonus to sometimes be omitted when the player had a piercing weapon equipped.
-Implemented a series of checks to ensure that the Tome of Battle and maneuver objects are flagged as cursed, since without 
this flag all kind of bugs can crop up.

Version 1.14

-The Swordsage’s AC bonus is now applied as a permanent effect which is only updated when a condition that 
influences this bonus changes.  This should eliminate the infamous repeating “You have a bonus that does 
not stack” message.
- Warblade maneuver recovery has been adjusted so that maneuvers are recovered at the end of the swift action’s
round rather than at the beginning.
- Overhaul of the leveling and feat retraining systems.  The new systems should be much less prone to errors.
-Maneuvers.2da has been expanded to allow customization of the current maneuvers and to allow anyone to add 
entirely new maneuvers (because we all love custom content).  See maneuvers.txt in the 2da file for information.
-To showcase the new ability to add maneuvers, I added a new first level White Raven Boost called Encouragement.
- Overhaul of the 2da indexing system.  The new system has been designed for efficiency and to allow Persistent 
World scripters to hook their own lookup systems directly into the Tome of Battle (check the library file, 
bot9s_inc_2da for this).
-Small bugfix for White Raven Tactics, Fan the Flames, and Distracting Ember.  The range detection check was too 
short because it did not take into account the target’s size.
-The first time the player levels their maneuvers a starting weapon is also created.
-Fixed an issue that was causing the Swordsage’s 12th level Insightful Strike to be ignored.
-Initiating more than one strike from outside of melee range will no longer enqueue many separate move actions.  
Each strike that was called from out of range will enqueue properly, once the player is within range of their 
target.
-Corrected a few bad tags for the Tome of Battle object that were missed in 1.13. 


Version 1.13

- Implemented safeguards against the loss of 2da and tlk data.
- Removed the BAB requirement on Stone Power.  How it got there in the first place, I’ll never know…
- Adjusted the Swordsage’s AC bonus so that it will not be applied to the player while they are already under a 
shield AC bonus effect (such as Mage Armor).
- Optimized how the Tome of Battle object is identified in NWScript.
- Several small code optimizations throughout.  Nothing that should be noticeable, but it should make things run 
a little more smoothly.
- Took another shot at maneuvers hanging on larger creatures.  It should (cross your fingers) be fixed now.
- Added a check on an opponent’s health that prevents a maneuver from expending if the opponent is already at less 
than one hit point.

Version 1.12

- The Tome of Battle is now compatible with Mysteries of Westgate.
- Fixed an issue which caused a maneuver to be unable to be used if the player interrupted it while moving.  In 
relation to this bug (to be on the safe side) I’ve made it so that clicking on the swift action box will clear 
out the action queue and how maneuvers are recorded on it.  It functions like a panic button.
- Expanded the dialog.tlk and cleaned up a few typos.
- Resolved the issue that would freeze the maneuver selection screen.  My special thanks to BrainMeyer for 
pointing out the cause of this bug.
- Greatly improved how feats with recursive loops are handled.  This was to prevent an issue where module 
transition would shut down the loops and prevent them from running again.
- Added a new icon to the Maneuvers Known menu.  When pressed, it opens a menu where the player can preview all 
maneuver and stance descriptions by level and discipline.


Version 1.11

- Files for compatibility with Kaedrin’s PrC Pack 1.40 are now available.
- Fixed an issue with Aura of Perfect Order which caused will saves to be calculated incorrectly.
- Crusaders now have access to tower shields automatically, as per the class description.  Oops...
- Battle Skill has been adjusted.  The penalties to an opponent's knockdown and disarm attempts have been removed.
Instead the Warblade gains immunity to knockdown starting in the first round of combat for a duration in rounds 
equal to his intelligence modifier (if any).

Version 1.102

- Corrected an issue where the movement part of a maneuver’s execution would hang a strike with larger creatures.

Version 1.101

-Hotfix to correct an issue where Storm of Zehir’s OnAquire script destroys all of a companion’s maneuver items.

Version 1.1

- Warblade maneuver progression has been corrected.
- Burning Brand and Dancing Blade Form have both been rescripted to prevent a rare bug from occurring.  Item 
swapping has been removed from both scripts and overall their functionality is much smoother than the previous 
versions.
- The base items for the Tome of Battle and the maneuvers have been altered to correct compatibility issues for 
players without Mask of the Betrayer or Storm of Zehir.
- The Maneuvers Known screen will no longer automatically open on the player’s Stance listing.  This is due to an 
overall improvement in how xml data is now handled.
- Switched from the system of linked effects to one of totaled structs, which are then used to calculate damage in 
a single linked effect with each damage type.  While it won't entirely eliminate the issue of Damage Reduction 
being applied to each source of damage, it does eliminate a large amount of damage lost that was reduced. 

Version 1.01

- Swordsages now correctly have medium BAB progression.
- Crusader alignment restriction has been corrected and the descriptive text made a little clearer regarding alignment.
- The combat override state now correctly includes routing for Circle Kick and Flurry of Blows.