
        Thank you Piotyr! 
        Also known as Chaos-Piotyr on the NWN2 forum boards. Without his help you wouldn't be reading this. 
        He did all the research for me on this class, and trust me, there was alot of info to dig up.



        PnP Pale Master:

        Requires Wizard/Sorcerer (no Bards), Lore 8 (no knowledge religion available), and Skill Focus Lore.

        Gets only d4 hit dice per level.

        Can now take Weapon Proficiency feats (such as Weapon Proficiency Martial) during level-up. Thanks to NecromanX2 for finding this bug!

	Gets spell progression every level starting at level 2 (same as Eldritch Knight).

	Starting at 6th level touch will kill/paralyze/con drain/level drain/strength drain (one effect 
        in that order based on target immunities & your level), touch attack up to 3 uses per day at 
        level 10, death touches (10th level) will cause humanoid targets to animate as zombies under your control. 
        Save DC = 10 + PM Class level + Charisma modifier.




	Loses the following:

	Loses Bone Skin and Summon Undead feats (not PnP).

        Gains the following* :

	1st level: Light and Medium Armor feats.
	2nd level: Animate Dead once per day (as per the spell).
	3rd level: Darkvision.
	4th level: 10% spell failure reduction in armor (must be at least light armor- won't apply with robes). This simulates 
                   Bone Armor feat since there currently isn't any way to craft bone armor.
	5th level: Control Undead feat 1/day, 1rnd/level, no save (requires melee touch attack), no concentration check,
		   affects hd less than or equal to total character levels. This is a custom feat (3403).
		   Deathless Vigor ( +4 to Fortitude Saves).
	6th level: Undead Graft gives +4 inherent strength bonus. This is accomplished by giving the feats 
                   Epic Great Strength 1, 2, 3, and 4. This actually raises your ability score, so 
                   it stacks with Bull's Strength and Belts of Giant Strength which both give an 
                   enhancement bonus to strength. If you de-level to below 6th level, you will 
                   lose the +4 inherent strength bonus. You can get it back when you again gain 6th level.
	7th level: Tough as Bone gives Immunity to Disease and Stun only. This is now a custom feat (3404). 
                   You must use my Feat.2da file or this class will not work properly.
	8th level: 20% spell failure reduction in armor (must be at least light armor). This simulates 
                   Bone Armor feat since there currently isn't any way to craft bone armor. This doesn't 
                   stack with 4th level 10% reduction. It's 10% reduction at 4th level and 20% reduction 
                   at 8th level.
	9th level: Summon Greater Undead once per day (as per the spell).
	10th level: Deathless Mastery also gives Immunity to Paralysis, Sleep, Poison, Ability Decreases, Negative Levels, and Death Magic.


        *De-leveling will remove any bonuses granted as if you never had the class level.



        NOTE: You must use my equip and un-equip scripts. All of the bonuses (armor spell failure reduction, +4 strength, immunities) are controlled 
              through the use of these scripts. Without them this class will not work properly. Also, to properly use this hak, you must remove 
              all of your PM levels (then you can add them back in once my hak is in your override folder) so that all my custom feats will be 
              added at level-up.


        NOTE: If you die and respawn after combat, you will notice that all of my custom immunities are gone. They are removed on death. To re-apply 
              them, just equip (or un-equip) ANY item in your inventory. It doesn't matter what item- ANY item will do. These immunities are applied 
              as Supernatural effects so they can not be dispelled nor are they removed on resting.
